Jewellery industry MRI scan can be used. 1 gm gold is around $50. All asian countries are having good transaction
of glod jewelleries. But no body can find whether the gold is really pure gold. Nobody can tell how much copper is in that jewellery.
MRI can easily tell that. And it can also tell how much of gold,copper,silver is in the given jewellery. The 
current procedure is scratch the jewellery in a rough surface compare its glitter with some standard color/glitter.
So the gold loan banks will scratch your gold legally. If you put the same gold jewel for another loan ins ome other bank,
 then agin a scratch will happen. Another method is drill a small hole in that jewel. Pore acid in it.
This acid will immediately react if there ia any silver. But the outer gold would be lost in some low level due to boring.
The same procedure will be followed if you put the same jewel for another gold loan in another bank. These kind of procedures will
test the customers gold in invasive way, where MRI scan make much more good testing in non invasive way.

The above is just a basic usage of MRI in jewellery industry.

There are some other things in jewellery also need a machine based authorising system.

For example when a person buys 11gm of diamond, what is the assurance that the thing is really diamond or just a glass piece
with the same refracting index. Definitely he will call some examiners to check it. if everybody is a part of 
cheaters group means, or if they pushed to tell that the thing is diamond, then obviously a person will buy a 
glass piece for millions. MRI carbon scan can reveal whether the diamond is real or not.

Same goes for pearls. Now a days artificial pearls are dominating the market. In this finding natural pearl is so difficult. 
MRI scan of natural pearls can give a pattern or design about natural pearls. By using this as reference, we can find differentiate
the artificial pearls from the original ones.

Like wise there are no measuring system for gemstones like cat's eye,ruby,emerald,pearls and all those things present 
in http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_gemstone_species.

My suggested methodology is scan the originals and derive a pattern out of it. This will help not only to find its originality,
it will also help to find its source location. Because many persons prefer not just gemstone , they prefer gemstone
from certain places. So MRI can help in it.

The greatest advantage in these things is MRI doesn't need big magnets, it will need medium sized powerful magnets.
It is also possible to check many varities at single go. No need to worry about the time under 
magnet due to stones are not alive. I think in market already some near field MRI scans are available, they 
can be used as jewel scans after some little changes in softwares and little bit of harware change.